# O.11 Digital Forensics

Basic information: 
-------------------

SY486 is an elective taught at USNA within the Cyber Science Dept. It
was last run during the spring of 2019 and is planned to run again
during the spring of 2020. The course is X hours in class and Y hours in
Lab per week and taught over a 15 week semester. The course is comprised
of a lectures covering: 1) Investigation and documentation practices for
Digital Forensics, 2) Data hiding, 3) Email investigations, 4) File
System Forensics, 5) Memory Forensics, 6) Mobile Forensics, 7) Registry
analysis, and 8) Social Media Forensics. Labs covering use of 1) Memory
Forensics Tools such as Volatility, 2) Analysis of Hacking Activities,
3) Imaging Drives and Operating Systems, 4) Steganography, 5) Autopsy
Forensic tools, 6) Graphics Files, 7) File system Forensics and NTFS.

<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<th>Topic</th>
			<th>Assessment</th>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td width="50%">Operating system forensics</td>
			<td width="50%">File system forensics, Memory Forensics, Registry Analysis lectures and Imaging drives and operating systems, File system Forensics and NTFS labs.</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td width="50%">Device/Media Forensics</td>
			<td width="50%">Memory Forensics, Mobile Forensics lectures and Forensics Tools, Volatility, Autopsy, Imaging Drives and Operating Systems, Graphics Files lab.</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td width="50%">Network Forensics</td>
			<td width="50%">Email investigations lecture and Mobile Forensics labs.</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td width="50%">Memory forensics</td>
			<td width="50%">Memory Forensics lecture and Volatility lab.</td>
		</tr>

	</tbody>
</table>

Going Forward. 
---------------

Going forward to better align with NSA-CAE CO curricula requirements the
course will broaden the view of Network forensics to include recovery of
behaviors from flow logs. Additionally we plan to incorporate further
attention to Examination tools such as FTK and Encase.

NSA-CAE CO curricula requirements.
----------------------------------

O.11 Digital Forensics (must include hands-on lab exercises)

Digital forensics is the recovery and investigation of material found in
various cyber environments (e.g. networks, memory, operating systems,
etc.). The focus of this KU is on the digital forensics process and
technology (tools and techniques) not the legal aspect (such as chain of
custody or preparing evidence for court).

Broad coverage of all the below topics and in-depth coverage, including
hands-on-experience, of at least one of the below topics must be
covered:

Operating system forensics

Device/Media forensics

Network forensics

Memory forensics

Outcome: Students will be able to understand a user's activity,
determine the manner in which an operating system or application has
been subverted, recover "deleted" and/or intentionally hidden
information from various types of media, and demonstrate proficiency
with handling a large number of different kinds of devices.

Outcome: Students will be able to understand how to identify forensic
artifacts left by attacks.

Outcome: Students will be able to understand how to acquire a
forensically sound image.

## README

[SY485 labs](../../Course%20Documents/SY485%20CYBER%20CRIME%20INVESTIGATIONS/Lab_exercises)
